
Task 1: Create Compute Engine instance

To create a Compute Engine instance on Google Cloud Platform with the specified requirements, follow these steps:

Go to the Google Cloud Platform Console (https://console.cloud.google.com).
Create a new project or select an existing project.
In the navigation menu, click on "Compute Engine" under the "Compute" section.
Click on the "Create" button to create a new instance.
Configure the instance with the following settings:
Name: Enter a name for your instance.
Region: Select the region closest to your location.
Zone: Select a zone within the chosen region.
Machine type: Choose the machine type that suits your needs and is the least expensive (e.g., "e2-micro").
Boot disk: Choose a Linux distribution (e.g., Ubuntu) as the boot disk.
Firewall: Allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic if needed.
SSH keys: Optionally, add your public SSH key to enable SSH access.
Click on the "Management, security, disks, networking, sole tenancy" link to expand more options.
Under "Management," enable "Shutdown script" and enter the following command to install PIP during instance startup:
sql
Copy code
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y python3-pip
Leave other options with their default values or modify them as per your requirements.
Click on the "Create" button to create the instance.
Task 2: SSH to your instance

To SSH into your instance directly from the Google Cloud Platform Console, follow these steps:

Go to the Google Cloud Platform Console (https://console.cloud.google.com).
Navigate to "Compute Engine" under the "Compute" section.
Locate your created instance and click on the SSH button next to it.
A new SSH session will open in a browser window, connecting you to your instance.
Task 3: Check Python version

Assuming you are now connected to your instance via SSH, you can check the Python version using the following command:

css
Copy code
python3 --version
This command will display the installed Python version on your instance.

Task 4: Remove your Compute Engine instance

To remove your Compute Engine instance, follow these steps:

Go to the Google Cloud Platform Console (https://console.cloud.google.com).
Navigate to "Compute Engine" under the "Compute" section.
Locate the instance you want to remove.
Click on the checkbox next to the instance name to select it.
Click on the "Delete" button at the top of the page.
In the confirmation dialog, click on the "Delete" button again to confirm the deletion.
The instance will be deleted, and any associated resources will be released.
Note: Be cautious while deleting instances as it will permanently remove the instance and its data.